- **Program** – a sequence of instructions (called [statements](https://hyperskill.org/learn/step/3521 "In Java, a statement is a unit of code that performs a specific action. | It can be a standalone instruction or a part of a larger block of code. A statement can take various forms, such as assignment statements, object creation statements, method invocation statements, or control flow statements. Control flow statements, such as if-else statements or switch statements, allow for decision-making and conditional execution of code based on certain conditions. A statement's execution order is determined by the program's control flow, which can be affected by blocks, loops, and other control structures.")), which are executed one after another in a predictable manner. [Sequential](https://hyperskill.org/learn/step/3521 "In Java, a sequential refers to the order in which statements are executed in a program, specifically in the order they are written - from top to bottom. | This is the most common and straightforward sequence of statements, where each statement is executed one after another. This concept is important when working with collections and loops, as the order of elements can affect the outcome of the program. Java 8 introduced the Stream API, which provides a functional approach to processing collections of objects. With streams, a programmer can focus on what the code should do rather than how it should do it, and it also makes parallelizing easy.") flow is the most common and straightforward sequence of statements, in which statements are executed in the order that they are written – from top to bottom in a sequential manner;
    
- **Statement** – a single action (like print some text) terminated by a semicolon (`;`);
    
- **Block** – a group of zero, one or more statements enclosed in a pair of braces `{...}`; There are two such blocks in the program above;
    
- **Method** – a sequence of statements that represents a high-level operation (also known as a subprogram or procedure);
    
- **Syntax** – a set of rules that define how a code needs to be written in order to be valid; Java has its own specific [syntax](https://hyperskill.org/learn/step/3521 "In Java, syntax refers to a set of rules that define how a program needs to be written in order to be valid. | It includes the order of components, such as statements written from top to bottom in a sequential manner, and the use of specific symbols, such as semicolons to terminate a statement. Java has its own specific syntax, which includes the use of keywords, identifiers, literals, operators, and separators. These tokens must adhere to the specific rules of the Java syntax and are separated by whitespace.") that we will learn.
    
- **Keyword** – a word that has a special meaning in the programming language (`public`, `class`, and many others). These words cannot be used as variable names in your own program;
    
- **Identifier or name** – a word that refers to something in a program (such as a [variable](https://hyperskill.org/learn/step/3521 "In Java, a variable is a named storage location that is used to store a value of a specific type. | It is declared with a specific data type, which determines the kind of value that can be stored in it. Every variable has a unique name, also known as an identifier, which is used to access its value. Variables can be declared and initialized in a single statement, and their value can be accessed and modified using the name. It's important to note that variables can be changed, meaning you can assign a new value to a variable without having to declare it again.") or a function name);
    
- **Comment** – a textual explanation of what the code does. Java comments start with `//` or `/*`;